---
title: About Min Jin Lee
image_path: /uploads/minjinlee.jpg
---


Min Jin Lee's *Pachinko*, which published on February 7, 2017, is a national bestseller, a *New York Times*Editor's Choice and an American Booksellers Association's Indie Next Great Reads. It is a Top Ten Books of the month for Amazon and Barnes & Noble. It has been listed as a top read or a most anticipated book for *BBC.com, NBC's Bill Goldstein's Weekend Today, Stylist UK, Publishers Weekly, Esquire, LitHub, The Millions, Chicago Review of Books, Newsweek.com, BuzzFeed, Book Riot, BookPage, Elle.com, Daily Mail UK, BookBub, Nylon*, and it is a Book of the Month Club selection. *Pachinko* received a Starred Review from *Kirkus*, *Library Journal* and *Booklist*. Her debut novel *Free Food for Millionaires* was a No. 1 Book Sense Pick, a *New York Times* Editor’s Choice, a *Wall Street Journal* Juggle Book Club selection, and a national bestseller; it was a Top 10 Novels of the Year for *The Times* of London,&nbsp; NPR’s *Fresh Air* and *USA Today*. *Free Food for Millionaires* was also published in the U.K. (Random House, 2007), South Korea (Image Box Publishing) and Italy (Einaudi).&nbsp;

Min Jin went to Yale College where she was awarded both the Henry Wright Prize for Nonfiction and the James Ashmun Veech Prize for Fiction. She attended law school at Georgetown University and worked as a lawyer for several years in New York prior to writing full time. She has received the NYFA Fellowship for Fiction, the Peden Prize from *The Missouri Review* for Best Story, and the Narrative Prize for New and Emerging Writer. Her fiction has been featured on NPR’s Selected Shorts and has appeared most recently in *One Story*. Her writings about books, travel and food have appeared in *The New York Times*, *Conde Nast Traveler*, *The Times of London*, *Vogue* (US), *Travel + Leisure* (SEA), *Wall Street Journal* and *Food & Wine.&nbsp;*Her personal essays have been anthologized in *To Be Real*, *Breeder*, *The Mark Twain Anthology: Great Writers on His Life and Works*, *One Big Happy Family*, *Sugar in My Bowl*, and *Global and the Intimate: Feminism in Our Time*. She served three consecutive seasons as a Morning Forum columnist of the *Chosun Ilbo* of South Korea. Lee has lectured about writing, politics, film and literature at various institutions including Columbia University, French Institute Alliance Francaise, Tufts, Loyola Marymount University, Stanford, Johns Hopkins (SAIS), University of Connecticut, Boston College, Hamilton College, Hunter College of New York, Harvard Law School, Yale University, Ewha University, Waseda University, the American School in Japan, World Women’s Forum, Korean Community Center (NJ), the Tokyo American Center of the U.S. Embassy and the Asia Society in New York, San Francisco and Hong Kong. In 2017, she won the Literary Death Match (Brooklyn/Episode 8).&nbsp;

From 2007 to 2011, Min Jin lived in Tokyo, Japan where she wrote *Pachinko* (February 2017). She lives in New York City with her family.

*photo copyright 2016 Elena Seibert*