---
title: About
images:
- "/uploads/minjinlee.jpg"
description: ''
type: page
menu:
  main:
    weight: 8

---
Min Jin Lee is a recipient of fellowships in Fiction from the Guggenheim Foundation (2018) and the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study at Harvard (2018-2019). Her novel _Pachinko_ (2017) was a finalist for the National Book Award for Fiction, and a _New York Times_ 10 Best Books of 2017. A _New York Times_ Bestseller, _Pachinko_ was also a Top 10 Books of the Year for BBC, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and the New York Public Library.  _Pachinko_ was a selection for "Now Read This," the joint book club of PBS NewsHour and The New York Times. It was on over 75 best books of the year lists, including NPR, PBS, and CNN. _Pachinko_ will be translated into 24 languages. Lee's debut novel _Free Food for Millionaires_ (2007) was a Top 10 Books of the Year for _The Times of London_, NPR’s _Fresh Air_, _USA Today_, and a national bestseller. Her writings have appeared in _The New Yorker_, NPR’s _Selected Shorts_, _One Story_, _The New York Review of Books, The New York Times Magazine_, _The New York Times Book Review_, _The Times Literary Supplement_, _The_ _Guardian_, _Conde Nast Traveler_, _The Times of London_, _and Wall Street Journal_. She served three consecutive seasons as a Morning Forum columnist of the _Chosun Ilbo_ of South Korea. In 2018, Lee was named as an _Adweek_ Creative 100 for being one of the "10 Writers and Editors Who are Changing the National Conversation" and a Frederick Douglass 200. She received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Monmouth College.

Extended Bio:

Min Jin Lee's _Pachinko_ (2017) was a finalist for the National Book Award for Fiction, a _New York Times_ 10 Best Books of 2017, a _USA Today_ Top 10 Books of 2017, an American Library Association Notable Book, and an American Booksellers Association's Indie Next Great Reads. It is a _New York Times_ Bestseller. _Pachinko_ was also a Top 10 Books of the Year for BBC, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, _San Francisco Chronicle_, the New York Public Library, _Seattle Post-Intelligencer_, and the Chicago Public Library. _Pachinko_ was a selection for "Now Read This," the joint book club of PBS NewsHour and The New York Times. It was on over 75 best books of the year lists, including NPR, PBS, CNN, _Vox_, History Channel, _Esquire_, _Financial Times_, _Amazon_, _The Boston Globe_, _Minnesota Public Radio_, _Literary Hub_, _New Statesman_, _BuzzFeed_, _South China Morning Post_, _The Millions_, _Goodreads_, _BookPage_, _The Rumpus_, _Southern Living_, _Town & Country_, _Book Riot_, _Bustle_, _Financial Review_, _Interpreter_, _Refinery29_, _Chicago Tribune_, _Publishers Weekly_, _Kirkus Reviews_, _Electric Literature_, _WBUR On Point_, _The Brooklyn Rail_, _Read It Forward_, _Whitcoulls Top 100_, _Entropy_, _Irish Independent_, _RTE_, and _The Irish Times_.  _Pachinko_ will be translated into 24 languages.

Lee's debut novel _Free Food for Millionaires_ (2007) was a Top 10 Books of the Year for _The Times of London_, NPR’s _Fresh Air_ and _USA Today_. It was a No. 1 Book Sense Pick, a _New York Times_ Editor’s Choice, a _Wall Street Journal_ Juggle Book Club selection, and a national bestseller.

She is a recipient of fellowships in Fiction from the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation and the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University. She was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Monmouth College. The Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives and the Antiracist Research and Policy Center at American University named her a Frederick Douglass 200 for her work as a writer. In 2018, Lee was named as an Adweek Creative 100 for being one of the "10 Writers and Editors Who are Changing the National Conversation." Lee has received the NYFA Fellowship for Fiction, the Peden Prize from _The Missouri Review_ for Best Story, the _Narrative_ Prize for New and Emerging Writer, and the Reading Women Award.

Her fiction has been featured on NPR’s _Selected Shorts_ and has appeared most recently in _One Story_. Her writings about culture, politics, books, travel and food have appeared in _The New Yorker_, _The New York Review of Books, The New York Times Magazine_, _The New York Times Book Review_, _The Times Literary Supplement_, _The_ _Guardian_, _Conde Nast Traveler_, _The Times of London_, _Vogue_, _Travel + Leisure_, _Literary Hub_, _Wall Street Journal_ and _Food & Wine_. Her personal essays have been anthologized in _To Be Real_, _Breeder_, _The Mark Twain Anthology: Great Writers on His Life and Works_, _One Big Happy Family_, _Sugar in My Bowl_, and _Global and the Intimate: Feminism in Our Time_. She served three consecutive seasons as a Morning Forum columnist of the _Chosun Ilbo_ of South Korea.

Lee has spoken about writing, politics, film and literature at various institutions and organizations, including Columbia University, French Institute Alliance Francaise, Amherst College, University of Michigan MFA, The Center for Fiction, Tufts, Loyola Marymount University, Stanford, Johns Hopkins (SAIS), University of Connecticut, Boston College, Hamilton College, Hunter College of New York, Harvard University, Harvard Law School, Yale University, Ewha University, Waseda University, the American School in Japan, World Women’s Forum, Korean Community Center (NJ), the Hay Literary Festival (UK), Hong Kong International Literary Festival, Melbourne Writers Festival, Sydney Writers Festival, the Tokyo American Center of the U.S. Embassy, the Asia House (UK), and the Asia Society in New York, San Francisco and Hong Kong. In 2017, she won the Literary Death Match (Brooklyn/Episode 8), and she is a proud alumna of Women of Letters (Public Theater).

On July 10, 2018, she had the unique honor of being a Double Jeopardy clue in the "Literary Types" category for $1200 on the game show _Jeopardy_: "Korean-born Min Jin Lee wrote a 2017 book with this Japanese pinball game as its title," to which the contestant Becky answered correctly in the interrogative, "What is Pachinko?"

She was born in Seoul, South Korea and immigrated to Queens, New York with her family in 1976 when she was seven years old. Lee is a graduate of the Bronx High School of Science and was recently inducted into its Alumni Hall of Fame. At Yale College, she majored in History and was awarded the Henry Wright Prize for Nonfiction and the James Ashmun Veech Prize for Fiction. She attended law school at Georgetown University and worked as a lawyer for several years in New York prior to writing full time.

From 2007 to 2011, Lee lived in Tokyo where she researched and wrote _Pachinko_. As of the fall of 2018, she will be based in Boston, where she will be working on _American Hagwon_, the third diaspora novel of "The Koreans" trilogy.